# Harmonic-decomposition-approach-to-dynamical-friction-for-eccentric-orbits
This repository contains code and results used in the paper "Harmonic-decomposition approach to dynamical friction for eccentric orbits"

The repository contains the simulations' measurements for the angular momentum and energy dissipation rates used in the paper, specifically for figures 4 and 5. The results are found in the files "angular_dissipation.csv" and "energy_dissipation.csv".

The code used to calculate the friction coefficients is also available and follows the analytic results of the paper. We provided the Julia file "hansen_calculator.jl" to calculate recursively the Hansen coefficients used to calculate the g^{(j)}_{lm} function. It creates a cache that contains the coefficients and is used by other files and another cache with some Newcomb operators that are calculated along the way. 
The friction coefficients can be calculated with the "friction_coefficients.jl" file. This file contains different methods for computing g^{(j)}_{lm}(x,e) functions, the function g1 uses numerical integration while gjlmx\gjlm uses the Hansen coefficients found in the cache created by "hansen_calculator.jl" and gjlmX uses the stationary phase approximation as dictated in equation (25) of the paper. Those functions can then be used to calculate the friction coefficients for the energy dissipation in the function Iphi. Inside the file there are also some code snippets used to make plots of the g functions.

To calculate the vector field for the evolution of binary systems as represented in figure 8 the mathematica code "binary_evolution.nb" is used, this file contains the function IEILparall that calculates the friction coefficients I_L and I_E of a binary system according to equation (50) in the paper. This is then used to evolve different binaries with the function Evolve and to plot vector fields with the functions MpdotEdotVector and MdotEdotVector.
